Okay.
So in this lesson I'd like to introduce environment variables.
And in order to introduce that topic, I want to talk about the problems that environment variables
help us solve.
The short answer is that environment variables help us whenever there is variation in our app that is
due to the environment in which we are running.
Okay, so what do we mean when we say environment?
What we're really saying is the mode in which we are running our view app.
So let me just create some space here and I'm just going to is regular JavaScript comments here just
so I can have a little canvas to write things out.
Typically, we are going to have at least three environments in our typical view app.
And again, environment is just a mode of execution.
So we're going to have our development, environment and development.
You can think of as basically what we've been working in right now.
This is an environment that is specifically suited for the developer writing additional code.
And the whole idea of environments is that each one is optimized for the specific use case.
So for example, when we're in development mode, we've noticed that whenever we make changes in our
code, the view SQLite understands those changes and automatically reloads the page so that we see those
changes in the browser that is called hot module reloading or Amara.
And that is a feature that only exists in development mode whenever we run NPM, run, serve this view
app knows that we're running in development mode and thus it knows to enable those development specific
features like hot module reloading that help make it a better development experience for us.
Right.
But that is not the only environment that we run in.
So for example, this another environment is production.
When we decide to bundle this view app up.
What we can do is run a command from usually that will get all of our code inside a single JavaScript
file and then we go to some server on the Internet and we deploy that code.
We basically put an HTML page with a link to this JavaScript file that has our whole app, right?
And then the user is able to access that server in that page and see our view app.
That is it running in production, right?
So in production, you have other optimizations for speed, for caching, for things like that.
And for example, we don't need hot module reloading and production because we're not going to be going
and changing our code and developing on the server where we're hosting our app.
Right.
A third example of an environment is test.
Whenever we run our test suite using NPM run test, we we tell the vehicle its use specific configuration
settings, specific optimizations that make the test suite run faster.
So Vue still kind of knows this is what I need for development.
This is what I need.
If I'm running this in production, this is what I need for a test suite and, you know, flex on and
off different configuration settings that it may need.
Right.
So that's just the basic introduction to the idea of environments.
And when we look at this URL right here, we are reaching out to this.
You're all right here in order to get our listing of 100 jobs.
The only problem is this URL is only going to work when we are in development.
Right?
If we were to bundle up this view app and put it on a server on the internet, we wouldn't wanted to
reach out to local host 3000 because local host would simply be its own computer.
Whatever computer or server this app is running on.
We instead would typically tell the app to reach out to some other URL on the internet that represents
the API.
So to summarize what I'm what I'm trying to see here in development, a URL here like localhost, 3000
slash jobs is totally fine because it's just for development and local host is our computer and we can
ask our computer to be both the view app and our mock backend.
Right.
But in the real world, that's not going to work in production.
You may ask the View app to hit up another API.
For example, you might have something like API that my company Bcom slash jobs, right?
So at the end of the day, it's still the same slash job's URL, but the kind of primary URL here is
something totally different.
This is a real location on the internet that your app can reach out to in production.
And this is a URL on our own computer that the app reaches out to only when it's in development mode
in a different environment.
Right?
So this problem that we have here is that we need this link to be a lot more dynamic.
We need to be able to customize it when it's in development mode, and we need to be able to customize
it when it's in production mode to be something totally different.
Right?
And same thing goes for test.
If we wanted test to have a different URL or a specific URL, we could customize that as well.
The question is, where do we bundle up these kinds of configuration settings?
We do this in plain text files and all these files are is really just a collection of key value pairs.
To think of key value pairs, you can simply think of JavaScript objects, right?
There is a key and it corresponds to some kind of value.
And so we can have a whole bunch of textiles in our, in our code base.
One of them can be for development.
One of them can be for production.
One of them can be for test.
And what the UCLA can do for us is based on the environment that we're running in.
It can look for the corresponding file of key value pairs.
Load that file.
Load those key value pairs and thus.
We can allow that configuration file to store custom information pertaining to that environment, such
as a custom URL that we're trying to reach out to.
All right.
So let me show you how this is going to work.
I'm going to save this file for now.
We're going to come back in just a second.
I'm going to go to my file Explorer.
I'm going to collapse everything here and I'm going to create three files on the top level of my code
base and each file is going to represent.
You can think of it like the settings for just one environment.
So here's how it works.
I'm going to create a new file and I want to talk to you about all of the options that are available
in view.
So the first thing is you can create a file called Dot Envy.
This is going to be a plain text file.
And EMV, of course, stands for environment, right?
If you create a file like this, it will apply to every single environment that you're running.
So development, production, test, any other environments that you configure, the key value pairs
that you register in this file, the settings, in other words, will be available no matter which environment
you're running in.
If you want to get more custom and you only want certain settings to be available in certain environments,
what you have to do is add another dot here and then write your environment afterwards.
So for example, if I want something to only be available in development or to be more specific, if
I want to customize a specific setting in development, I can write dot envy, dot development.
All right.
So that's the second option available to us.
We can either write dot envy or we can write dot envy, followed by a dot in the name of an environment.
And the three environments I have listed here development, production and test are the three default
ones that are available from UCI.
Right now there's one more available option here.
If we save our file like this, it will be saved to our source control.
In other words, to get whenever we commit, if we want our environment file to not be saved to get,
we can give the file another dot and then the word local and usually knows that this is something that
should not be added to get or to source control.
Typically the way it's going to work is you can.
There's not like a single singular right answer as far as whether a file should have, you know, should
be committed to source control or not.
But you should know that in your EMV file that you commit to source control, you should not have any
private information.
So something like a URL to access an API I think is fairly public information.
That's exactly what your users are going to be heading in your website.
And they can you know, they can go to the network tab and see where they're hitting, which URL they're
hitting.
It's not some kind of sensitive private data.
In comparison, something like an API key or some kind of password or something that's enabling you
to get access to sensitive information.
That kind of data should never be committed to source control because then some other developer could
be able to open that environment file and say, Oh, here's the password to our SQL database, or here's
the password to get to some server that I can access, right?
So anything that's sensitive, you never want to put into these files, that's the big heads up.
For now, we're just going to put a bunch of URLs so there's no real harm here.
So I'm going to create this file and this will store the configuration or environment settings for my
development environment.
All right.
So I'm going to leave this file empty and I'm going to create the complementary files for my other two
environments.
I'm going to create a file right here once again, dot EMV to make a file for environment variables.
Another dot.
My next environment is going to be called production and then I also do not want this committed to source
control.
So I'm going to add the dot local at the end and that's just a part of the file name.
And then I'm going to create one more file as well.
Dot EMV, dot test, dot local.
So EMV for environment variables, test for my environment local to not committed to source control.
All right.
So let me save that.
Let me now open these file side by side.
Let's see if I can even split it up into three panels in Fiasco.
And it appears I can.
And here's what we're going to do in order to define any kind of environment variable that you want
available in your view app.
It needs to begin with a certain prefix which is going to be view all capital letters underscore app.
So any environment variable that you want to be available in your view app must start with this prefix
and then you provide it the follow up actual variable name that you want to provide.
You can almost think of this like a constant and is going to be available throughout your view app.
And whichever file is loaded is the constants that view is going to load and make available in your
code.
So I'm going to call my environment variable API URL because that's really the one piece of dynamic
data that I now want to customize between different environments.
For example, if we're in development, what we can do is basically keep the exact same URL we have
here because local host is going to represent our machine.
We know that we're going to be running JSON server, so it's totally fine to have something like this.
So right here in double quotes, because it's actually I think when we're dealing with environment variables,
you don't need double quotes.
You can actually just write out plain strings on the right side of the equals sign.
You're going to write HTP.
Colon slash slash local host colon 3000.
This is the exact same thing that we have in our job listings that view.
We're not going to put the slash jobs because that is the specific endpoint we want to hit.
But this is our base API URL.
So what do you think we're going to do in our corresponding files right here?
We're going to use the exact same environment variable because we're eventually going to access this
in our app.
So this is also going to be view app API URL.
But here we can customize what the production API URL is going to be.
So for example, HTTP, colon, slash, slash, this can be something like my real API dotcom, right?
Obviously this website doesn't exist in the real world, but when whatever it is, when you bundle up
your view app and you put into production and you have an envy file there, you may not even go into
that server that's hosting your your view app, create any envy file and put this logic in there.
This is where you can provide the link to the real world API URL that your app is going to hit in production.
Right.
And the advantage of this environment variables which we saw on this file is that we can customize this
configuration, setting, this arbitrary name that we called it, view app API, a URL we're going to
be able to use in our view app.
But depending on which environment view loads, it's going to be a different string value, right?
So right here in my test environment variables file, I can similarly create view app API URL and assign
its own value.
So let's say http, colon, slash, slash and let's make this something different again.
So maybe my fake API icon is going to be the u URL or the value of this environment variable when we
run view in test mode or in the test environment.
All right.
So when we go to job listings dot view.
Now as a reminder, let me in fact close these files right here.
We had this previous hardcoded.
String.
And we can now make this a dynamic reference based on the environment variables that we're going to
have.
So what I'm going to do here is I'm going to create a concept called base URL.
And the next question you might have is, how do I get that piece of information that I store in my
environment variable file?
Well, it's going to be available on a global node object called process.
And on that object you're going to have another object called the process is automatically available.
Whenever you're running a node app, you do not need to import it from anywhere.
It's automatically available.
And then on its EMV object, which stands for environment, you're going to have access to whatever
environment variables you defined in the environment variable file that that was loaded in.
So no matter which file we load in, we're going to have access to that view app API.
You, Al.
Value, right?
What this is is going to be dynamic.
It can be one of three values depending on which environment we're running in.
But because we defined this environment variable in all three of our environment files, we're always
going to have some valid string value here to represent our base URL.
It's either going to be localhost 3000 or it's going to be my fake API or my real API.
Write the exact three values that we configured in those files.
So now all that's left here is right here.
Instead of using this hardcoded value, I'm going to use ES6 template strings and I'm going to use the
dollar sign to interpolate whatever base URLs.
And then slash jobs.
All right.
So if we're loading this app in development mode, things should still work because we're just going
to load in localhost, 3000 and then run to get slash jobs.
And if we're running this in production and we're going to have a real URL here, then we're going to
take that base API URL and concatenate jobs to the end of that.
And it should still work in those two separate environments.
All right.
That's all we need to do.
So there's two things we want to do here.
We want to test this in test mode, and we also want to test this in our browser.
So right here, I'm going to run NPM, run, test, colon, watch.
And we're actually going to get a failure.
And it's actually going to be a good failure because it's going to offer us a chance to learn more about
how all this works.
You're going to see here.
We are failing in job listings.
That component fetches jobs.
So let me open job listings that test that.
Yes, let me open it on the right hand side.
And we are failing right here in the first test to test them.
It fetches jobs.
So why is this failing?
Well, because localhost 3000 is no longer the URL that we set up for our test environment.
We set up my fake API.
That's why you can see here what Jess is actually receiving is my fake API scam slash jobs.
Again, that is coming from dot envy that tests that local.
We said that whenever the view app accesses this value right here in test mode, this is what it's going
to be.
So when we run this test in test mode, that environment variable right here evaluates to my fake API
icon, right?
So now we can customize what this is not just for production and for development, but for testing as
well.
So now we can change this to be the correct value, which is going to be my fake API dot com.
Let's save that.
Let's let the file rerun.
Let's see if that passes.
And it does.
And then what I also recommend you do on your end is if you're running your vehicle service, I recommend
you stop it so you can press control C to shut it down and then go ahead and restart it using NPM run
search.
That's what I'm doing in my other screen and that just ensures that the vehicle I will properly register
the changes and the new files that you have added to the code base, right?
So nothing will change in the browser, but we're just going to ensure that everything, everything
still works, that our developed development file provides this URL which allows job listings to reach
out to our mock backend.
That JSON server is serving at local office 3000.
And if everything worked correctly, then nothing should break in the browser.
So if I go back to Chrome and I refresh this page, we should still see all of our results.
And indeed we do.
We can still see in the network tab, in fact, that we should be reaching out to localhost 3000.
Let me refresh this.
And you can see here we are indeed.
Reaching out to local hosts 3000 so we are correctly accepting the value of that view.
App API, you are environment variable that we configured in our environment variable file for this
development environment.
All right.
So as a quick review, an environment variable is just some kind of setting.
It's a key value pair.
It's a name followed by an equal sign.
And the value you can give it whatever name you want, but it must start with View App and then you're
going to have access to those variables on the process that EMV global object node, and you can use
that to customize different data that flows into your view app that may differ based on the environment
in which you are running the View app.
All right.
That's all there is to cover in this lesson.
So I will see you in the next one.